tei_text
========

<p>Motivated by a recent mock keynote debate, "<a href="http://digitalcommons.unl.edu/englishfacpubs/106/">A Matter of Scale</a>," presented by Matt Jockers and Julia Flanders as part of the Boston Area Days of Digital Humanities Conference 
(http://nulab.neu.edu/events/dhdays2013/) and the imperative that librarians involved with many things 
"digital" learn not only how to build tools, in this case for textual analysis, but leverage existing tools to 
support teaching and research endeavors rooted in the text.  Coming from the tool-building perspective and 
tradition, I seldom have time to explore existing tools for textual analysis.  This is partly because at IU we 
are so vested in textual markup following the TEI Guidelines for which few external tools exist that act on the markup (thus our focus on building). But as is the case with many academic libraries attempting to balance scale of digital production, we are not always in the position to build boutique interfaces, tools and functions for hand-crafted markup.  Further, often early research inquiries can be better defined if not answered by initially playing and experimenting with raw data sets before embarking on markup.  Finally, after many years of leading e-text initiatives and championing the TEI, I would love to sit around with folks and compare and contrast, not just the possibilities, but also the outcomes of real research inquiries that formed the basis for many of the TEI collections I am offering up to the community for experimentation.  In other words, what can we ascertain without/beyond the markup and can those very queries yield answers regardless of the markup?</p>  

<p>The other motivator for this session is two-fold.  At IU we've always exposed the TEI/XML, but at the most atomic level.  I am exploring workflows moving forward in which we batch not only the TEI but other versions of the data, primarily plain text, for easier harvesting and re-purposing.  One reason for doing this – there are many good ones – is that we want to demonstrate to our faculty partners the possibilities of sharing data in this way.  The content can and should be analyzed, parsed, and remixed outside of the context of its collection web site for broader impact and exposure.  I am hoping, with your help, to figure out how to best push versions of this data into the flow, around a more formal call, initially, to the digital humanities community-at-large as part of Open Access Week 2013 so I can track the various morphings and instantiations of this data to share back with the IU community, especially my faculty partners.</p>
